- Type:: [[Book]]
- Author:: [[John Dewey]]
- Summary::[*](((AnO2Fn6en))) {{[[r/moved]]}}
    - [[Ch1 - Traditional vs Experimental Education]]
        - Traditional education
            - Opens talking about education traditionally looks like a process of modelling people (children) in the view of the "correct" model. In bringing people towards a state that is modelled and enforced. A top down approach. 
            - Learning as acquisition. As taking the knowledge that exists in the elders and putting it in the pupil's. 
            - Knowledge as static, as something that has been reached and discovered already. The way things were will continue into the future.
                - A danger in putting elements in terms of binaries and then deciding to create a reality that is in opposition of what has been tried is that you don't allow the reality to take shape in the way that it naturally would. If the entire definition of something is against something else, then it will never be what it can be.
            - New Education
                - Stems from the idea that experience is inextricable from learning.
                    - Needs to develop an coherent theory of experience
                - Referring back to [(the danger of casting element in opposition)](((CvagU1i7x))), for example when talking about subjects
                    - Dealing with subjects needs to not be dismissed because the traditional model deals with education in this way.
                    - The right question is to ask How is subject matter related to and derived from experience?
                - If there is something to be learned from people that have gathered knowledge through experience, the fact that this cannot be 'given' to a student should not mean that one should dismiss authority.
                - A new education cannot just set itself in opposition to the old one. 
    - [[Ch2 - The Need of a Theory of Experience]]
        - Starts by doubling down on his take about oppositions. Boldly reads "Moving away from something that is wrong does not mean you are moving to something that is right" [(1)](((CvagU1i7x)))
        - Likewise, saying that education comes from experience does not mean that all experience is educational.
            - Experience can be mis-educational if it gets in the way of distorting or stopping new experiences from happening.
            - Experiences lead to habits, and habits can lead you to patterns that make future experiences difficult to have. p.26 [[karma]]
                - Take the experience of traditional education.
                    - You have to take the fact that traditional education does in fact give kids experience. But, when the experience is one of memorizing or drilling a subject, what kind of habits do the children develop, and how does that blunder the possibility for the real educational experiences to happen in the future?
            - So, how do you encourage the "right" kind of experiences. Given that there can be "bad" experiences in education, simply focusing on providing experience in the classroom is a misguided effort.
                - The right experience not only engages a student in the moment where the lesson is being presented, but also sets up the student for future experiences.
        - All this is, in the end, is a case as to why a philosophy of experience is necessary to create a philosophy of education. Because defining values in oppostion to something else is a completely useless effort. Without understanding the cause, the solution will be completely shallow.
    - [[Ch3 - Criteria of Experience]]
        - Here Dewey outlines the effects of a progressive education and how it seems to provide a more free and democratic education. He omits an argument as to why that is preferred, but gives it an implicit assumption that it is inherently good, pleasant, and right to strive for it.
        - Principle of continuity of experience
            - Based on the idea of habits
                - Every experience undergone modifies the experiencer, which modifies the quality of subsequent experiences.
                - The principle of continuity of experience makes every moment affect every future moment. 
            - Growth is an example.
                - Each step in the growth of a person is modified by all the steps previously defined.
                - Requires direction to be meaningful, a priest and a burglar could come from the growth of the same man. 
                - Each step in the growth of a person can mean either a multitude of possibilities in a new space, or a closing off of possibilities. Some moments and habits can lead to decisions and growth.
                    - Learning to read opens up a world of growth possibilities, but doing something else might bring a completely different set of elements to the forefront.
        - Each experience can therefore be judged by the quality of subsequent experience that it affords. And the role of the educator to judge the quality of the experience that the pupil is having through the instruction
        - A person living **in** the world means that he is bound by a situation and the interactions that that situation affords. Each situation bears with it the baggage of the decisions made by the previous situation and all the ones before it due to the [principle of continuity](((WAnJGOUUm))). Each lesson in one is an instrument for the subsequent. 
            - Continuity and interaction are the settings which an educator can manipulate to create a meaningful educational experience.
                - **The Educator should focus on the objective situation of an educational experience**
                - The objective world can be manipulated to create a situation, from the setting, to the tone, to the society which they are surrounded by when interacting
                - Because each situation is also defined by the interaction that people have with it, there is no guarantee that a certain situation will be effective just because they were effective to one person.
                    - The educator has to make each situation effective for the people that are there. It is not just enough for materials to be there for learning, just because they worked on other students.
            - We defined success in education as the ability to memorize and regurgitate formulaic and stale information, completely at odds with how we learn from experience, then blamed the students for its failure.
                - We continue to use completely outdated ideas about education to this day. 
                - Students memorize History, Arithmetic, Geography, Language, etc, in situations which are completely devoid of any resemblance to how their application might look like. We just assume that this bank of knowledge will be applied at some point in the future.
                - Though the subjects might be useful, the experience of acquiring them in a completely artificial setting is not conducive to how the principle of continuity of experience says that we use educational experience. We might be able to recall the masses of information that we had memorized, if we go to a situation that resembles the conditions which we acquired it. 
        - We sacrifice the present in order to gain knowledge of an abstract future in traditional education.
            - This is problematic, as being able to extract all context from the present is the type of experience that will be most beneficial for the future.
            - By creating an artificial situation which does not resemble any situation in the world, we might create conditions that make people resent the subjects which they are learning, and that paints future situations with a bitterness for it.
            - An educator's role is to create a condition where the present experience is taken into full advantage, where every aspect of a situation is exploited as a tool for learning, where we maximize the moment in the present, to carry with us this curiosity and disposition towards future experience.
    - [[Ch4 - Social Control]]
        - A system that attempts to be rooted in the idea that learning happens in accordance with life experience will be faulty unless it has a well defined theory of experience
            - In Dewey's case, one rooted in the principles of [interaction](((j78XPJpaL))) and [continuity](((WAnJGOUUm)))
            - Beggining with the aspect of social control
                - Even the most extreme anarchist concedes to the need for rules to abide for social behavior.
                - People subject themselves to this naturally, and necessarily
                - Kids for example, when inventing or playing games, define their behavior in terms of the rules that are accepted upon by the group which is playing.
                    - No one objects to the rules, and no one "imposes" the rules of the game. Disputes exist over the interpretation or when someone has violated the rules, but it is rare to question the existence of the rules themselves. Control happens without anyone giving up their freedom for it
                - Authority - when exercised by a teacher - is justified because it is assumed to be in the interest of the entire group - most of the time.
                    - The 'legitimate' and 'illegitimate' form of authority is often recognized by kids that are playing
                    - Schools have traditionally needed the teachers to exert themselves and cerate a form of control in the classroom, but this is due to a lack of structure within the entire process.
                - Planning is therefore not restrictive and should be done so long as it is not so rigid as to impede the experience of the pupils interacting with the material and creating experiences from it.
        - Education is a communal process, and the teacher is a part of the community and should not be excluded.
            - If education is based on experience and experience is a social process, the teacher looses the position of external boss and takes one of leader and guide  of group activities
            - Convention should not be dismissed either, it is a very useful process of reducing friction between the participants of a group and creates a baseline that reduces the time spent defining it.
    - [[Ch5 the Nature of Freedom]]
        - Dewey talks about freedom of thought and how it compares to freedom of movement
            - schools tend to constrict movement as a way to achieve the former 
            - new education trends to place an onus on movement which allows more experience to happen
            - there cannot be exclusive focus on the aspect of education which is reflection
                - deep reflection is a specialized skill not acquired easily
                - quiet reflection can be combined with active engagement
                    - movement creates conditions for learning, especially at a young age
        - education requires a level of restriction of freedom of mobility, but one that leads to self control
            - if self control is not achieved then, when external restrictions are lifted, you are still bounded by a new set of external restrictions,  your whims and passions
    - [[Ch6 The Meaning of Purpose]]
        - There is a relation between freedom and purpose
        - the purpose of learning is in some sense the lesson that the teacher is trying to instill in the pupil 
        - Purpose according to dewey is when observation and impulse are met with introspection
            - When we touch a flame or interact with an object, we are gathering experience that will be useful in the future.
            - Purpose for dewey is this process of
                - Observing
                - Recollecting past experiences and
                - Behaving according to our experience (drawing meaning)
            - Desire turns into purpose when considering all the things that must happen to achieve that desire
                - Wanting a house -> Planning the house, gathering money, etc, etc -> building the thing
                - So desire can and should be used to motivate the execution of something and give it purpose
                    - Through getting the thing achieved, we arrive at experience and therefore learning
    - [[Ch7 Progressive organization of subject matter]]
        - Based on the arguments so far in the book, experience has to be at the forefront of the teaching of a specific subject
        - We learn based on the progressive revealing of our environment in a natural setting. We understand the world through navigating and interacting with it. The educator starts when the expansion of our world leaves off and tries to amplify this widening of horizons beyond our current environment[*](((lWTfodGoV))) {{[[r/moved]]}}
            - Understanding the past experience of a student is a necessary step in knowing where they are, and on what context to expand on for each student. 
                - Educators seem to do this easily for kindergardeners and smaller children, but it is much harder to do so for young adults or older
                - New experiences are not enough, educators have to give experiences that are in line with previous experiences. The educator has to pick the previous experiences of the student that have the most potential to create future experiences.
                    - **Looking at what has already been learned not as a possession but as a force and agency towards new explorations and experiences**
                        - The past is as important as the future in this regard. Understanding what can lead to a greater opportunity for experiences based on the principle of continuity. 
                    - Solving through problems that relate to experiences like the interactions that the students have with trains bycicles and eating All these processes are intimately intertwined with chemistry, physics, mechanics, history, language, economics, industry, culture, psychology etc. 
                        - You don't need to study or teach them all, but progressively reveal them as the student reaches maturity
                        - The theories that are not borne of direct experience but abstracted as generalized principles [as fuller would say](((nRVt8kcqv))) They are useful as generaliztions of experience but should be derived through the experience which the teacher is helping to guide in the student
                            - The relationship between the principles, the theory, the model is there prior, and the purpose of experience is for that relationship to reveal itself to the student through activities [*](((jUfCMxlZc))).
                        - Activities in school are a means to allow for the principles to reveal themselves to students and are therefore a focus of the teachers to ensure that the right activity is actually being used for learning.
                            - They are to be done with a purpose of discovering the same understanding that the teacher has, by the students on their own experience.
                                - Planning and structuring is the role of the teacher, but in a way that the material will be there for the student to discover its meaning through work and play. Learning **is **the lesson that the teacher is trying to instill in the pupil. Because knowledge and wisdom cannot be taught, all of learning is a process of discovering for ourselves how to behave, what holds true in different situations, what brings desirable results and what does not. The teacher has these experiences already, and has to create the conditions for the student to gain these experiences for themselves.
                            - Using the scientific method to create activities for learning, we reach the importance of ideas, observation
                                - ideas guide the reasoning behind scientific experiments, the hypothesis that has to pass a level of scrutiny before it becomes an accurate operating assumption or generalized principle
                                - Precise observation of the results of activities elevate mindless playing to scientific rigor 
- Grokked::
    - [[Ch1 - Traditional vs Experimental Education]]
        - It is clear that Dewey is talking from experience and from the frustrations that he has with the way that the progressive education movement of his time - which he was instrumental in founding and defining - has taken course. I relate very much with his ideas, both about knowledge, and how they relate to the buddhist notion of [experiential vs intellectual understanding](((gdeCZRn7C))). understanding vs intellectual
        - His criticism of the old idea in education is incredibly pertinent, however. Wisdom cannot be transfered, as it is not an object. Wisdom is living in each individual, and is only acquired through the experience that got to make the person who he is now. 
        - This idea is extremely powerful, and is also a little overstated in programming communities. Tutorial purgatory is a term for the process that people get stuck in, being hand held creating project after project following the guides of a udemy or youtube professor, without taking the more painful and less direct route of creating something to which there are no pre-made instructions that you can follow. Architecture likewise always stresses this distinction, yet it is not entirely apparent that our institutions of teaching and learning actually have this outcome. 
            - Project based courses vs memorization based approaches to learning.
                - The Odin Project is an amazing resource, which could very well be the kernel for something absolutely revolutionary in terms of a computer science education. 
        - Still hasn't mentioned community in his approach, which would be an interesting thing to hear his perspective on.
    - [[Ch2 - The Need of a Theory of Experience]]
        - Here he goes into the argument as to why the book, and his life's work, is absolutely necessary. There is definitely a problem, and like many people have pointed out, the problem is clearly defined. Kids don't like school, they don't learn in school, and the teachers are not good at making kids learn, for the problem he outlines. in ch 1. Learning is not the transfer of knowledge. 
        - He also is very cognizant of the fact that simply going against the way that things were done previously, in "traditional" education is a completely incorrect path. You cannot exclusively define yourself in opposition to something. Going against the grain of something wrong does not necessitate you being right. Because there is a tyrant, doesn't mean that you must overthrow all authority. This is such a profound stance and argument for reform, without cutting back the criticisms that can get us there.
            - What he wants to do is to give us a theoretical framework for experience that we can use to actually define the foundational mistakes which lead us to the wrong outcomes. And, given that education happens through experience, a theory of experience is at the heart of what needs to be laid out, and the traditional model of education tested against. 
                - Experience is not just an internal attribute, as experience also affects, and is affected by, external conditions.
                - Previous experiences led to the creation of roads and technology, which then facilitate the creation of new experiences
                - The teacher should account for the external environment, and the social context for the process of giving a pupil an experience which will allow for a large numbers of future rich experiences. 
                - Traditionally schools have gone through a process of subordinating the external conditions, shutting down all assets and prioritizing the internal states.
            - Situations are a mixture between the internal states of the participants 
    - [[Experience and Education]] Ch3 - Criteria of Experience
        - So the meat of the argument here is to derive a theory of experience, with which we can describe the conditions for effective and meaningful education. Given everything said prior to this, Dewey has laid out an extremely strong case for the need for such a theory and is ready to present it.
        - Dewey's claim to a principle of continuity of experience are extremely straightforward and obvious, as many good theories are. That every moment affects the way that we experience future moments. That as we develop, we define ourselves, our patterns, our behavior based on our prior experiences, and each moment has the possibility of changing out relationship with each future moment.
            - Learning is one of the most useful things that people can use, as it opens up the future to possibilities more than any other activity. Reading allows us to multiply the quality of the future moments, and the possibilities that a new moment might provide. 
        - This reveals a metric for measuring a productive experience - how well it opens up to new possibilties in the future.
        - Combining this with the principle that interaction with a situation changes the quality of the situation, the problem with traditional education becomes apparent. 
        - Traditional education simplifies the experiences of kids, and abstracts away so much of the actual experience from them and creates artificial situations where the context of what one is learning is not at all what woulb be useful for future experiences. Much like Luhman focuses on the context of ideas [( l )](((4gDCqG2mt))), Dewey focuses on the context of experience.
    - [[Ch4 - Social Control]]
        - No one objects to the rules, and no one "imposes" the rules of the game. Disputes exist over the interpretation or when someone has violated the rules, but it is rare to question the existence of the rules themselves. Control happens without anyone giving up their freedom for it
            - Dewey is trying to arrive at an idea that legitimate control is a product of implicit agreement upon the rules of behavior to participate in that game. Social control is not the same as loosing freedom.
        - Social control is an absolutely necessary part of all human behavior, and it is not necessarily bad. Control, or acceptance of norms is simply defining the game which we are playing. 
    - [[Ch5 the Nature of Freedom]]
        - freedom has to be sacrificed to some extent, but this sacrifice allows one to have the ultimate freedom in the future if done right. Because good education increases the possibilities for you to have new, better, and more meaningful experiences in the future,  it makes sense to sacrifice part of it now. 
            - we always do this when moving towards the future, and the present has a certain tension with the future
        - We learn through exploring, travelling through the world around us. this is a spatial phenomena.
    - [[Ch6 The Meaning of Purpose]]
        - Teachers should strive for kids doing things purposefully, based on their interests and desires, but guided by the subtle nudges of the teachers (which are the bearers of lived experience)
            - Purpose starts from our desire to do something, and then figuring out what has to be done to achieve it. Without desire there is no purpose in this context.
- Relations::
    - An idea is only as useful as its context, which is not necessarily the one which it was taken from.
- Concepts:: {{word-count}}
    Around the year 1,000 a.d. there was a legendary named Naropa in India. He was an incredible intellectual, and was an absolute genius at debating. He spent much of his youth memorizing the words to traditional buddhist texts, and was the keeper of the Northern Gate of the greatest university at the time, Nalanda. Legend says that he one day a dakini appeared and asked him if he understood the words of the dharma (buddhas teachings). He answered that he did, and that he understood the meaning as well. This made the dakini cry, and she called him a scholar but also a liar, as he did not understand what he was reading, and told him to look for Tilopa, who was the only one who understood what what he was reading. We'll come back to this story later.
    ## Education today
    What is our approach to education today? In our educational institutions, we create a "safe space" for students to come together, and have a professor talk about something at them for hours, to which they will get tested on. This has been the case for over a century.
    Is that still the predominant mode? 
    Does that seem right?
    The proper question would be, what does it mean to learn something? What does "knowing about something" mean? Truth is that education today is clearly seen as insufficient in most cases, overly theoretical and largely divorced from the real experiences that professionals have when working in the field of study. This is true in 2020, and apparently it was true in 1920. The craziest part is that we have known for over a century that our model of instruction is faulty, yet it still predominates our academic institutions. 
    So what would new education look like? In 1938, when Dewey released the book, there seemed to be a wave of progressive schools that taught kids in environments much more akin to playing than classrooms. He maintained that the new form of progressive education was not rooted in first principles, but simply positioned themselves in opposition to the traditional model. The book was an attempt at constructing a theory of experience and learning from first principles, not just creating an opposing view of traditional education.
    ## Starting From First Principles
    So what is a theory of experience, especially as it relates to education? We know that everything that we do is learned from experience, and especially direct experience of the subject matter at hand. This is why doctors, lawyers, architects, engineers need to practice professionally before becoming licensed. There is a responsibility in these professions - they can be responsible for people's lives- and giving people a degree is simply seen as a step towards the actual learning that takes place in practice.  
    This is the case because we understand what Dewey was trying to tell us, that as long as we don't do the thing, we won't know how to do the thing. 
    So, we can recognize experience as something useful, but then we have to discern what kind of experience has the most utility. Because even if we have some experiences that are useful for learning, the experiences that we are having in schools are clearly not the best for learning and understanding. 
    ## What is useful about experience
    All of our experiences live in a continuum of an ever expanding present moment. All of our yesterdays are used to create all of our tomorrows, and this is always done today. And in each moment, we can interact with our environment. In doing so, we define what we will become. Every interaction modifies the experiences, and therefore the quality of subsequent experiences. Everything that we do creates a habit in us, and it will nudge us in the future in a direction. We are, after all, a collection of our habits. 
    There are experiences that close us off from the richness of the future, and experiences that opens up possibilities for more, rich, beautiful future experiences. Take a child finding a book and engaging with it, it can be the window towards a world of possibilities. The same child might become a thief, an athlete, or a scientist. It is not to categorize as one of those being better than the other, simply to say that each experience is propelling us forward and shaping our future. 
    This is why learning is such a useful experience and an important thing to get right. Learning something new can reveal a world of ideas, authors, people, friends, places, objects, and thoughts that you did not even know existed. Learning allows us to multiply the quality of the future moments we will experience, and the possibilities that a new moment might provide. 
    Students interact with the world and string together these interactions moving towards the future. The raw materials that teachers can play with are: the context where students will be and the interactions that they will have with this context. The experience of the students is the place to optimize, and that must be taken into account with as much involvement with the greater social, historical, economic, cultural, and technological progress. Practically, this looks like field studies, internships, attempting something and seeing the consequences of it. 
    Today in school, much as it was 100 years ago, students memorize History, Arithmetic, Geography, Language, etc, in situations which are completely devoid of any resemblance to how their application might look like. We just assume that this bank of knowledge will be applied at some point in the future. And even though the subjects might be useful, the experience of acquiring them in a completely artificial setting is not conducive to how we build on past experiences. We might be able to recall the masses of information that we had memorized, if we go to a situation that resembles the conditions which we acquired it. Learning facts is only useful for regurgitating facts, not to creating connections with the greater questions that actually produce understanding. 
        - (As an aside, the evidence today strongly points towards creating connections with new ideas to old ones for them to stick. The more that a new thought is related to other thoughts in your brain, the more likely you are to remember it and find it useful)
    What we want to produce in an educational system, are people that can draw from the present moment all the necessary context to solve problems. People that can exploit every situation to be a tool for learning, and for this curious disposition to be with them into all future experiences. If we make the lessons in school about being able to think about our context, and take the most advantage of its possibilities, it will create students with an ability to do that in future moments. Instead, we tend to abstract the context of learning things to the memorization and regurgitation of facts, which can actually create resentment towards these subjects.
    ## What is the role of the teacher?
    A subject cannot be taught, no matter how much knowledge a person has, it cannot be transferred to a student if the student does not have any experience of the material at hand. No matter how much theory that you provide someone about center of gravity and moment of inertia, you cannot learn to ride a bike through lectures. 
    Planning and structuring is the role of the teacher, but in a way that the material will be there for the student to discover its meaning through work and play. Learning **is **the lesson that the teacher is trying to instill in the pupil. Because knowledge and wisdom cannot be taught, all of learning is a process of discovering for ourselves how to behave, what holds true in different situations, what brings desirable results and what does not. The teacher has these experiences already, and has to create the conditions for the student to gain these experiences for themselves.
    The teacher has to instill a desire for learning, tied to the motivations of the student. Desire turns into someone's purpose when they start to consider all the things that must happen to achieve that desire. If you want a house, you have to plan the house, gather the money, materials, designs, permits etc, then build the thing. Through achieving a thing we arrive at the experience of having achieved that, and that is when learning happens. Desire can and should be used to motivate the execution of something and give it purpose. 
    We understand the world through navigating and interacting with it. The educator starts when the expansion of our world leaves off and tries to amplify this widening of horizons beyond our current environment. Because we all have a set of experiences that we carry with ourselves, and we are always interpreting our present in accordance with those experiences, understanding the student's previous experiences is key to providing an education in line with what they carry with them. It is about looking at what has already been learned not as a possession but as a force and an agency towards new explorations and experiences.
    ## It's not about dismissing theory alltogether
    Scientific theory is actually born out of replicable experiences. They are useful as generalizations of experience but should be derived through the experience which the teacher is helping to guide in the student. The relationship between the principles, the theory, and the model is there prior to our experience, and the purpose of experience is for that relationship to reveal itself to the student through activities. Scientific education would mean solving through problems that relate to experiences that the student has had, like the interactions with trains bicycles, food, etc. All these processes are intimately intertwined with chemistry, physics, mechanics, history, language, economics, industry, culture, psychology, and all the other disciplines that we have defined as humans. 
    The complexity of a scientific theory can be progressively revealed from these interactions, as the student's maturity grows. Activities in school are a means to allow for the principles to reveal themselves to students and should therefore be a focus of the teachers to ensure that the right activity is being used for learning. Their purpose is to discover the same understanding that the teacher has, by the students, on their own experience. Using the scientific method to create activities for learning, we reach the importance of ideas and observation. Ideas guide the reasoning behind scientific experiments, the hypothesis that has to pass a level of scrutiny before it becomes an accurate operating assumption or generalized principle. Precise observation of the results of activities elevate mindless playing to scientific rigor.
    To summarize the gist of what Dewey was trying to say, is that the experience of learning something is not just better suited to absorb the material that we want students to learn, it **IS** the material that we want students to learn. It is not just important to provide appropriate learning experiences, and it is not in sacrifice of the material at hand. Thinking in terms of play time as something in opposition to learn time is not only incorrect, it is a fundamental misunderstanding of how we, as human's learn. In order to provide a situation that the students will learn things, that they won't resent the subjects being taught, that they will be able to apply the concepts in a real world setting, we need to stop making our schools so completely divorced from the real world as they are now. 
    This approach seems extremely sensible to me. Every time I have ever tried to learn something, it was always not quite right until I tried doing it. In programming forums, I constantly encounter the adage of build something in order to learn a technology. If you want to be a writer, you need to write. If you want to be a programmer, you need to program. If you want to be a doctor, you need to practice medicine. The theory gives us a model that is born out of the experience of people that have spent time doing it before us, and it is useful insofar as we actually take the step to confirm the meaning of the words by turning them into embodied understanding through doing. 
    Philosophical systems in the east, like the story of Naropa points to, made a distinction between the experiential and the intellectual. Naropa could recite the texts by hearts, but it was not until his teacher Tilopa put him through a series of hardships to test his commitment that he arived at the experience that the scriptures taught. This paradox is at the crux of the matter. Describing through words something that is an experience is impossible. It can be gentle nudges towards the right direction, but we will never acquire understanding, real understanding by simply studying about it on paper.
    Words and concepts are representations of the world. They are models that we use to narrow down, to define, to put in boxes, and to make sense the all the vastness of experience that we can have at any given moment. But they are simply that, maps, representations, models and abstractions. They cannot be the real thing, as the real thing is so vast that it cannot be defined. Every experience that we have is painted by every other experience that we have had, and all the interactions with them. To really arrive at learning, we need to integrate with a subject, and that can only be done by embarking in the journey of allowing ourselves to be transformed by them.
