- ### WHY ARAGON LABS?
    - What excites you to work at Aragon Labs, and why do you think you are a match for this role?
- Aragon labs is one of the first projects that I see trying to put together a viable proposal on what is the future of collaboration. Web3 is a space full of memes, trolls, shills, scammers which make a lot of noise. It is clear to me that Aragon is not distracted by that and is instead focusing on the potential. 
- About me, I am a hacker, self learner, doing my best to think in systems. I try to always be a lateral thinker. But more than a thinker, I am a builder. I studied architecture and have built houses, furniture, emergency relief shelters, designed construction manuals, launched a successful business, and recently, I have been focusing on building software. 
- I became a software tester and I helped reduce the time to do a full regression test by 20% by introducing automation on the critical aspects of the application - achieving the first month without a high priority ticket reported in the company's history. I built the full stack digital component for my business Memory Captures which I stepped down for to focus on things which yielded higher leverage. Even more recently, I have been diving into the world of building tokens with solidity. There is a possibility to be party to an emergent science of distributed social, organizational systems, and I am here for it. My focus on that led me to build Valorize which I am planning to open source and turn into a DAO which allows any community to tokenize, obviously there are parallels with Aragon there. 
- I think I would be a good fit because I am not a good fit in most places, and that is what seems to be what you are looking for. Doers that dare to dream and are not scared of a big challenge.
- ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
- I wrote a blog post a few years ago about what is interesting to me about cryptocurrencies. Buckminster Fuller once said: 
- "You never change things by fighting the existing reality. To change something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete."
- When a pseudonimous computer scientist released the Bitcoin protocol, she didn't put forth an argument, she put forth a new reality which the world now must contend with. This is how we go beyond the obsolete facets of legacy institutions, by pushing forth proposals and ideas which can change the world. I love to see projects like Aragon taking on the challenge of creating a new world.
