- [[Introduction: The Wellspring of Reality]]
    - Specialization has not only isolated us but left a dubious notion in our mind that the largest problems should not be tackled by us.
    - There is some information, the knowledge of which would unleash the potential for humanity to live in this planet harmoniously, with everyone living happy and healthy
    - To begin to look at the world as it is and how we can use it, we must start with experience, instead of axiomatic ideas that seem obvious.
        - Starting from experience means starting from science Edington - Science is the attempt to set in order the raw materials of experience.
        - Holding within their definition, we define Universe as the aggregate of all humanity's consciously apprehended and communicated, nonsimultaneous, and only partially overlapping experiences. An aggregate of finites is finite. Universe is a finite but nonsimultaneously conceptual scenario.
    - The brain functions by storing special case experiences which are packaged as concepts
        - These concept packages consist of undifferentiated phenomena that is complexly interconnected.
            - The brain stores thorns, stems, petals as a single unit, rose
            - We don't look at the rose for what it is, a web of interconnection ecological function in our planet either. We do have the potential to analyze the generalized principles through our experiences of roses.
        - A generalization is perojative in literature, a concept that is too broad to be meaningful, but in science it is a principle that holds true in every observable special case.
        - Mind is the weightless faculty that takes the unique experiences from our brain and tries to identify their complementaryness, sometimes discovering a generalized principle that is true in all experiences. It also filters out the principles that do not hold true.
            - specialization leads us to go away from mind's capabilities towards discovering generalized principles. It leads to focusing on such a narrow subset of problems which have no application at a large scale
            - So concepts might already be discovered that hold true but are not being discovered and used. If we are to take all of the collective yesterdays and turn their collective experiences into plans for tomorrow, it is congruent to take inventory of all the previously apprehended moments of discovery of generalized principles accross all disciplines.
    - For example the specialization of virologists have not found the distinction between animate and inanimate matter, yet their experience seems to point to the fact that all animate matter comes from inanimate counterparts. That means that life has not been isolated, and will therefore not appear if we reconstitute all the matter that encompasses a human. We know the composition and the encoding of life, but that we know nothing of life. We know it is weightless, all the chemicals remain after death and the weight is the same, but life is lost. 
- Grokked::
    - For example the specialization of virologists have not found the distinction between animate and inanimate matter, yet their experience seems to point to the fact that all animate matter comes from inanimate counterparts. That means that life has not been isolated, and will therefore not appear if we reconstitute all the matter that encompasses a human. We know the composition and the encoding of life, but that we know nothing of life. We know it is weightless, all the chemicals remain after death and the weight is the same, but life is lost. 
        - Bucky just casually throws in there a criticism of all western scientific approaches to defining consciousness in a paragraph
