- [[Gratitude List]]
    - Being born to smart parents
    - Being born healthy
    - Having travelled the world
- [[Quick Capture]]
    - There's No Good Reason to Trust Blockchain Technology
    - Type:: [[Article]]
    - Source:: [Wired](https://www.schneier.com/essays/archives/2019/02/theres_no_good_reaso.html)
    - Author:: Bruce Schneier
    - Subject:: [[cryptocurrency]]
    - Status:: [[finished]]
    - Abstract::
        - Blockchain requires trust in the security, implementation of the blockchain itself. Because this is a purely technical system, by design, it can fail for not accounting for operator error. 
    - Summary::
        - Blockchains claim trustlessness but require to trust in the system itself.
        - Blockchain Definition
            - A distributed but public ledger that has read and write access but is immutable.
            - The consensus algorithm ensures that all copies are the same. Anyone can participate, no node needs to be trusted.
            - Currency which incentivizes the players involved to align themselves
        - Append only data structures are not blockchains.
        - Trust != Verification
            - Trust is useful to societies, and the banking systems are built on layers of trust within the system. Reputation, structure and laws are there to ensure it runs.
        - > In his 2018 book, __[Blockchain and the New Architecture of Trust](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/blockchain-and-new-architecture-trust)__, Kevin Werbach outlines four different “trust architectures.” The first is peer-to-peer trust. This basically corresponds to my morals and reputational systems: pairs of people who come to trust each other. His second is leviathan trust, which corresponds to institutional trust. You can see this working in our system of contracts, which allows parties that don’t trust each other to enter into an agreement because they both trust that a government system will help resolve disputes. His third is intermediary trust. A good example is the credit card system, which allows untrusting buyers and sellers to engage in commerce. His fourth trust architecture is distributed trust. This is emergent trust in the particular security system that is blockchain.
        - Blockchains shift the trust from institutions to technology. You need to trust the cryptography, protocols and software because that is the point of failure.
            - Who is auditing the code?
        - Blockchains need human governance to run the system anyway. (Blocksize, roadmaps)
        - Points of centralization
            - Wallets, mining hardware providers, cellphone manufacturers
        - 
    - Grokked::
- [[Habits]]
    - {{[[table]]}}
        - Habit::
            - Notes::
        - [ ] Meditate
        - [ ] Exercise
        - [ ] Read a book
        - [ ] Write
- [[Reflection]]
    - [[Do [[DSRP]] model on two distinct objects]]
    - [[What did I learn]]
    - [[What could be better?]]
- [[Literature Notes]]
- [[Spheres]] 
    - [[Valorize]]
        - [Notion Board](https://www.notion.so/59b8a1e9f91846d0ab94ae99b008a999?v=cfc35d56c3b8498783dea4d92146aa7d)
    - [[Peapod]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Peapod]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Other]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Other]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Personal]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Personal]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]]}}}}}
