- [[Gratitude List]]
- [[Quick Capture]]
    - [[Saas org chart]]
        - [David Sacks](https://sacks.substack.com/people/9084655-david-sacks)
        - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=27950412
        - Hiring out of a 50 person company 12 in tech 5 in product 12 in sales 9 in customer success, 6 marketing, 6 finance
    - [[How To Speak]]
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Unzc731iCUY
        - Humans have a single language processor, and if it is engaged in text, it is not paying attention to spoken words.
        - How to start
            - Begin with an empowerment promise
                - What they will know and why that is relevant
        - Sample
            - Cycling around a subject. Repeat what you want to say. 
                - Tell em what you're gonna tell em, tell em, tell em what you told them
                - People will be distracted at any given point in the talk. Repetition increases the probability of information to be captured. 
            -  Build a fence
                - Allow for the audience to relate to what exists already in their heads.
            - Verbal Punctuation
            - Questions
                - Wait 7 seconds for an answer. It feels much longer than that when you are there. 
        - Time and Place
            - 11:00 am in a well lit place
            - The place should be cased, as in a robbery. Know what to expect.
    - [[Startup School]]
        - [[How to Pitch Your Startup]]
            - A good investor will hink of the things that might go right.
            - Investors are good at selling themselves on the idea. 
                - Do I understand
                - Do I like the idea
                - Do I like the team
            - Be Clear:
                - Ideas spread from word of mouth
                    - Marketing is the tax that you pay for making something unremarkable.
                - How to make something easy to understand
                    - Make it legible
                    - Make it Simple
                    - Make it obvious
                - Your idea should be understandable to someone that knows nothing about it.
                    - Avoid:
                        - Ambiguity - People should not ask a question to find out about what you do
                        - Complexity - have a singular idea, not something convoluted.
                        - Mystery - avoid jargon, don't suggest, BE EXPLICIT
                        - Ignorable - people ignore ads. People ignore buzzwords, marketing speak, etc. 
                        - No Jargon, 
                        - No preamble, 
                    - Do:
                        - Be conversational 
                        - be reproducible
                            - Investors need to imagine what you are doing in their head.
                            - Can someone understand and create a story of what you are building in their head.
                        - Answer the main questions
                            - People shouldn't have to ask what you do after the pitch
                            - "Dropbox allows individuals/teams to share files across their computers"
                                - You get it.
                        - Lead with what - leave out why and how for the short description.
                        - Be Concise
                            - Be empathetic about the person giving you funding. Time and effort to review applications.
                            - Get here as fast as possible
                                - What are you making
                                - Who is the customer
                                - What is the problem
    - [[Turning Products into Companies]]
- [[Habits]]
    - {{[[table]]}}
        - Habit::
            - Notes::
        - [ ] Meditate
        - [ ] Exercise
        - [ ] Read a book
        - [ ] Write
- [[Reflection]]
    - [[Do [[DSRP]] model on two distinct objects]]
    - [[What did I learn]]
    - [[What could be better?]]
- [[Literature Notes]]
- [[Spheres]] 
    - [[Valorize]]
        - [Notion Board](https://www.notion.so/59b8a1e9f91846d0ab94ae99b008a999?v=cfc35d56c3b8498783dea4d92146aa7d)
    - [[Peapod]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Peapod]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Other]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Other]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Personal]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Personal]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]]}}}}}
- [[roam/comments]]
    - [[July 27th, 2021]]
        - Think of the packaging
            - Treating everything as a design problem has been an incredibly valuable skill to develop. Think of:
                -  Hey.com [[Generalized Specialized]] [[Topic]] [[design thinking]]
                    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UCeYTysLyGI
                    - I think it is a great tool for reframing how we approach a problem which we previously had a tunnel vision for. 
                    - As a designer, this is an amazing tool and case study in rethinking the approach to something
                    - How do you approach a problem
                        - On defining what a problem is
                        - On leaving all assumptions at the door
                        - On starting from 0 based on the information that you have gathered
                        - Design a solution for it
                        - Test it
                        - Get feedback
                        - Core Ideas
                            - Surfacing, not digging
            - [[SolisColomer]] used to do this very well, and of course Apple.
