- [[Gratitude List]]
    - Ability to think
    - Born in a time where there is freedom
    - Born in a country where you can think and not be persecuted
- [[Habits]]
    - {{[[table]]}}
        - Habit::
            - Notes::
        - [x] Meditate
        - [x] Exercise
        - [x] Read a book
        - [ ] Write
- [[Reflection]]
    - [[Do [[DSRP]] model on two distinct objects]]
        - Distinctions Systems Relationships and Perspectives (DSRP) 
            - Building vs City Business vs Economy
                - Distinctions
                    - What is a business?
                        - A business is an economic entity that exchanges goods and services for others, generating a positive sum of values among all parties.
                    - What is not a business?
                        - Things that do not generate value, do not participate in the exchange of value, are not businesses. Creating art is not a business, selling art is.
                    - How would you distinguish between a business and an economy?
                        - A business is one of the smallest units in an economy. An economy is the the relationship between businesses, and refers to the meta playing field in which businesses play in. An economy is the area in which individuals, businesses, manufacturers play in. 
                    - Can you compare and contrast a business and an economy?
                        - A business is derived from an entrepreneur finding a gap in the economy - an inneficiency - and allocating resources to fullfill the need created by that gap. An economy is an emergent phenomenon that does not conform to what a group of agents wish
                - Systems
                    - What are the parts of a building?
                    - What is a building a part of?
                    - Can you name some parts of the parts of a building?
                    - What are the parts of the relationship between a building and a city
                    - What are the parts of a building when looked at from the viewpoint of a city?
                - Relationships
                    - What ideas are related to a building and what ideas are related by a city?
                    - What idea relates a building and a city?
                    - How are the parts of a building related?
                    - How are the parts of a building related to a city?
                    - What are the relationships among a building and a city and other things?
                - Perspectives
                    - When looking at a building, can you identify the perspective it is viewed from, and the subparts of that perspective?
                    - Can you think of a building from multiple perspectives?
                    - How are a building and a city related when looking at them from a new perspective?
                    - What are the parts of a building when looked at from multiple perspectives?
    - [[What did I learn]]
    - [[What could be better?]]
- [[Literature Notes]]
- [[Spheres]] 
    - [[Valorize]]
        - [Notion Board](https://www.notion.so/59b8a1e9f91846d0ab94ae99b008a999?v=cfc35d56c3b8498783dea4d92146aa7d)
    - [[Peapod]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Peapod]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Other]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Other]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Personal]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Personal]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]]}}}}}
