- [[Gratitude List]]
    - The Ability to learn everyday
    - People that support me
- [[Quick Capture]]
    - The crypto space is still full of optimists. I am sure the internet was also riddled with this in the beginning, has the sentiment shifted? 
        - Now, on the regular, the conversation about social networks is around their detriments. Crypto, blockchain, and dapps will surely have the same fate.
        - they have amazing potential, but also they come at a cost.
    - [[The Joke]]
        - Book by Milan Kundera about a guy that sends a joke in the mail during communist Checz Republic, and destroys his life.
            - Have been thinkin about it today, it is very prescient about what is happening today in the world.
            - There are real consequences to this cancel culture.
                - It's not there yet, but it is a trotten path. 
    - [[Balaji]] [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CHQi1HnCZGY)
        - Crypto unlocking the possibilities on the level of the Great Transformation in China, incentivizing and unlocking the potential value of billions of creators on the world.
        - The issue with having to rebuild your following in another platform.
        - The Concept of crypo handling the self custody of private/public keys. It is now possible to transport identity accross the layers and networks created on the internet.
            - A decentralized email client that allows for complete ownership of your data. 
    - [[The individual as a publically traded corporation]]
    - [[PolkaDot]]
        - A single chain which serves as a coordination mechanism for 
    - [[smart contract]] 

        - Considerations:
            - Proxy pattern for updating the content [OpenZepellin](https://blog.openzeppelin.com/proxy-patterns/)
                - Create a contract which has updateable state that points to the new smart contract which you have updated.
                - This breaks the promise of immutability, but it allows for upgrading
                - > All three patterns rely on low-level delegatecalls. Although Solidity provides a delegatecall function, it only returns true/false whether the call succeeded and doesn’t allow you to manage the returned data.
                - 
        - Signing everything for a user is not ideal, it creates a lot of pressure on the centralized entity. 
            - Best solution is probably a hybrid one, where non technical users delegate their access until they choose not to.
            - [[Valorize]] will create an opportunity to be onboarded to the decentralized future, progressively encouraging more control of the user. The usability problem, however, is still at the forefront of what we need for adoption. Do it for them, and offer them the ability to do it themselves as secondary - but offer it
            - 
- [[Literature Notes]]
- [[Spheres]] 
    - [[Valorize]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Valorize]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Other]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Peapod]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Peapod]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Other]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Other]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Personal]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Personal]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]]}}}}}
    - [[Generalized Specialized]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Generalized Specialized]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]]}}}}}
    - [[MetaBook]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[MetaBook]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Personal]][[Other]]}}}}}
- [[Reflection]]
    - [[What did I learn]]
    - [[What could be better?]]
- Import
    - [[Square Invested In Bitcoin]]
        - From: Square Invested In Bitcoin.md
    - [[Octaves]]
        - From: Octaves.md
    - [[Natural Minor]]
        - From: Natural Minor.md
    - [[Minor Keys]]
        - From: Minor Keys.md
    - [[Keys and Signatures]]
        - From: Keys and Signatures.md
    - [[Intervals]]
        - From: Intervals.md
    - [[drB]]
        - From: drB.md
    - [[Chords]]
        - From: Chords.md
