- [[Gratitude List]]
    - To live in a time so full of possibilities
    - To have the means and abilities to engage with these posibilities
    - To not have to worry too much about wealth, for the time being
- [[Quick Capture]]
    - [[Robin Hanson]]
        - Came up with the ideas of prediction markets
    - [[The Graph]]
        - Run a graphnode which hosts a subgraph to query ethereum contracts with GraphQl.
    - What to ask a cofounder?
        - Type:: [[Video]]
        - Source:: [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7h2DJEEJYOM)
        - Author:: 50Folds
        - Subject:: [[startups]]
        - Status:: [[finished]] 
        - Abstract::
        - Summary::
            - What have you done, what are you good at, what do you like doing
                - Having some prior experience is key to being succesful
                - When did they start their entrepreneurial journey
                - What are you willing to do, commit, get going with this. 
            - Work ethic. 40 vs 100 hour weeks. 
            - Ever got caught with fraud, did a bankruptcy
            - What do you like to know, what do you not care about
            - How much money is good enough?
            - Do you want to sell, for how much?
            - What makes you get up in the morning.
            - If you had all the money in the world, would you still do this. 
            - Primary focus or a side hustle?
        - Grokked::
    - Marketing for cryptocurrencies
        - twitter
            - https://twitter.com/adamscochran/status/1408090837372784644
        - Crypto marketing is for tehnical people always. How do you communicate what is valuable to the users
- [[Literature Notes]]
- [[Spheres]] 
    - [[Valorize]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Valorize]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]]}}}}}
    - [[Peapod]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Peapod]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Other]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Other]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Personal]]}}}}}
    - [[Personal]]
        - {{[[query]]: {and: [[TODO]] [[Personal]] {not: {or: [[query]][[Keypath]][[Memory Captures]][[Other]]}}}}}
- [[Reflection]]
    - [[What did I learn]]
        - The Graph's graphql interface to ethereum smart contracts
    - [[What could be better?]]
        - 
