- Article
    Traditional wisdom always advices us to narrow down. To specialize, to stay in your lane, to dare not cross over to that which is outside your narrow domain. We do this to each other because it is useful, it is easier to think about a small subset of problems rather than doing the work of finding connections in new areas. We do this because it is easier[(1)](((9vw1f-QGk))), because it is profitable to be an expert, because people don't want to hire someone that is spread too thin, or because in order to produce something that has not been thought of before, it is best to narrow down as specific as possible. This is why we end up with thesis' titles that sound like "The evolution of the west indie variant of the proto indo european language during the Poneysian drought of 311 to 315" (This is not real, but look at the latest thesis in most universities and you will see something with the same spirit). 
    This is useful, insofar as it allows us to find which areas of distinct knowledge is lacking in our inventory of facts and curiosities about specific disciplines. It is also difficult work, and a lot of bright minds are spending their time attempting to publish their findings in journals which are incentivized to make the distinction of what is relevant to the discipline at hand and what is not. Which box this idea fits in and whether it is relevant to the discipline which it guards. This is not exclusive, and journals have appeared that focus on interdisciplinary approaches to conducting science, but after half a century of complexity theory being discovered, validated, and put into practice it is still the exception to think in terms of systems, across disciplines, and strive to get answers to questions which require boldly stepping into the unknown, drawing connections that have never been drawn before. Our world is more complex and interconnected than ever, and our answer still seems to be "specialize further".
    But what kind of challenges do we face today? Off the top of my head, in no particular order: 
        - Economic and environmental migration towards industrialized economies, 
        - the possibility of carbon emissions creating irreparable damage to our atmosphere, 
overconsumption, industrial processes that do not account for externalities, 
        - social cohesion seemingly evaporating due to intolerance towards opposing beliefs
        - So much human capital being unable to tap into networks of production and global economies
        - Urban centers becoming overpopulated with unorganized unsanitary and substandard housing conditions
        - Technological companies moving towards erradicating the notion of private transactions and communication, threatening privacy
    The problems faced by each one of these challenges simply cannot be addressed by staying in the domain of a single discipline. Economics, engineering, social theory, communication, game theory, cryptography, manufacturing, logistics, networks, to name a few. It is not only narrow sighted to focus on a single dimension of one of these issues, but insufficient to tackle these problems. Focusing on the problem is useful, but limiting the solution to the domain that you are working in is not. We know that work done in states of deep focus is valuable, but only when combined with wide exploration and drawing connections from distinct ideas that you get to the most valuable insights.
    Taking it even further, our specialization in distinct domains makes us not want to tackle these problems. We are likely to say things like, I am just a climate scientist, or I am just an economist instead of venturing to understand the territory which we need to traverse to find a solution which requires the combination of these things. Climate issues will not be solved by climate scientists but by economists, sociologists, urban planners, and engineers working together and drawing connections between things that we usually consider as separate.
    The truth is that reality is one massively interconnected and messy spaghetti of synergetic systems that are beyond our comprehension. Every time that we create a model to represent it, or invent a concept to describe it, we reduce the complexity so that our lizard brains can make sense of an extremely thin slice of it all. This is necessary as models are some of the best tools that we have to the impossible task of making sense of an unintelligible totality. Sometimes, we even arrive at useful abstractions in the process. Like George Box says, "[[all models are wrong but some are useful]]".
    This is a calling to resist falling in love with our models and our abstractions. Yes, they help us make sense of something too complex to understand, but they are not the thing that we want to understand. Statistics is useful method to see the world, but let's not get so ennamored with the tool that we forget the object of study. We want to get insights into the things that motivate us, into life, into beauty, into living well - however you may define it. Being blinded by the pull of an idea can make us miss the beauty of the world, of what is actually there. In its most extreme scenarios like the case of Joseph Stalin, his deep and twisted passion for an ideal world that would never come to be led him to justify some of the most treacherous and vile human behaviors in history. A beautiful idea can have deep and ugly consequences, especially if it blinds you to what is actually in front of our eyes. 
    Let me be clear, ideas are useful, and they can bring about beauty in the world as much as destruction. We should not stop our inherent and passionate desire to seek them, to venture to new territories of thought that we have never encountered, to speculate against the abyss of the unknown. We should always keep that inherent curiosity, and nurture that amazing capacity for discovery and representation through artistic, mathematical, and technological mediums. What I see, and what many brighter minds have spoken about, that we are blinding ourselves to the object of our inquiries by prioritizing the tools that we have to study them. The result - thinking within my domains, having the audacity to say that the larger problems that we are facing as humans are not mine to solve, that I am not an expert on that, so I shouldn't get into it. Our mind has the capacity to discover relationships between phenomena, intangible principles of the functioning of the universe, models to explain the relationships between these, to say that this is not what we should focus on because it is not our expertise is a truly unfortunate disposition, that we are not able to afford right now.
    Even worse, new scientific and mathematical models have been opening up a new way of looking at the world, through the emergent and synergetic behaviors. Where traditionally, in a classical mechanics, we would try to break down a problem into the smallest part that could be described by an accurate mathematical representation. We would isolate further and further, until we got the perfect description of a perfect object and how its perfect trajectory could be tracked given that we could only reduce all the pesky noise that is associated with reality. However, once we 
    Notes
    **1.** It is easier only in the fact that there is a prescribed way to put in effort and get a result if you specialize. The effort needed is enormous, and I do not intend to make it sound like it is effortless. I do think, however, that it can be easy to waste close to a decade in creating research that will only ever be relevant to the 3 other people that are aware of the topic at this level, and that you will spend the rest of your academic career arguing with until one of you dies.
    
- References
    - The crux of why generalized principles that combine different domains of specialization are indispensable in solving complex problems is that there is an inherit loss of information about the problem by breaking it down to its constituent parts. By definition of the problem, they cannot be tackled by focusing on a subset of them.
    - [[Tim Ferris]] on being a [[specialized]] [[generalist]]
        - Source:: [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wCPbPMRNnvk&t=195s)
        - To be in the top of a highly specialized field, you need to have very refined and specialized knowledge in there, and there is a fraction of a percent chance to get to that point.
            - It is much more likely to get to the the top percentile of a combination of distinct domains.
                - Spreading out amongst multiple domains that are seldom combined and going deep into them makes you much more valuable. Finance + Computer Science, etc.
                - [[Winning even if you fail]]
                    - Take on projects that will provide skills that transcend the life of a project.
                        - [[Memory Captures]] plays that role for me. Learning how to manage and create systems, business processesses, management, product architecture, etc. 
                        - Do not siloh out your projects
                            - Make career decisions that allows you to be flexible, but do gain domain knowledge of a few key specific areas which will bring benefit into the future.
    - [See Your Career as a Product](https://eriktorenberg.substack.com/p/see-your-career-as-a-product?utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=cta) [[Article]]
        - Quotes::
            - __"
When building a product, you want something that is 10x better than the competition. Only after you have that do you begin doubling down on marketing, PR, and other growth tactics — the common advice is to nail retention before focusing on growth.
"__
            - __"Other product tropes also apply to careers: Capitalize on unfair advantages, insights, or relationships. Disrupt orthogonally, often from below—try not to compete head on. When you’re younger, take more market risk; when you’re more experienced, take execution risk."__
            - __“What are the things you can do today which make it easier to obtain your desired resources  and career opportunities tomorrow, in a way that’s defensible and compounds overtime?”__
            - __"IMO the biggest career mistake young people make is that they’re afraid to look dumb, so they follow safe paths to cap their downside, not realizing that they cap their upside too as a result."__
            - __"Specialized knowledge and skills makes brand legibility much easier too. Just give a talk, write a post, or go on a podcast and boom — your expertise is widely known, cemented on the internet and disseminated widely."__
                - On the usefulness of [[specialization]] when starting out - it gives you access to platforms that you might not get otherwise. Also networks. [[specialization]] is a tool in this context.
            - --"In 99% of cases, people don’t need to grow your network as much as they need to elevate how highly their existing network thinks about them — by developing rare & valuable knowledge & skills."__
                - Being strategic about how you leverage the small group that you have influence or pull with. 
            - __"People feel they don’t have a network because they aren’t actively networking. But, remember, networks are heat-seeking missiles for value. __Provide the value, and the network is there."__
        - In the context of a career, many product analogies do make sense. 
            - Iterate fast.== Change jobs quickly if one is not working
            - don't listen to people that are not your direct consumers == Taking advice from people that pursued a safe path unrelated to yours
            - Building another bland "me-too" product == Not taking enough career risk
        - On Building networks:
            - The problem with a lot of people is that they are not strategic about the value they are providing their network, It is much more valuable to integrate people in the value generating process early, so people want to have a coffee with you, and if they do it is worth their time.
                - Refine your knowledge to make their time with you valuable.
            - Building networks that are too wide is like focusing on growth before finding product market fit. It takes too much time to maintain, and does not allow you to take as many risks for because ding the wrong thing can have an adverse effect on your risk.
                - Building a wide network increases the risk of doing something that otherwise might still be risky but not as bad
    - We have tools to specialize, the tools to generalize are much more open ended
    - [Variable attention facilitates creative problem solving. ](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/232593415_Variable_Attention_Facilitates_Creative_Problem_Solving)
    - Psychologists used to associate scientific work exclusively with focused attention, while other, more floating kinds of attention were exclusively associated with creative work like art. We know today that we need both kinds of attention for art and science. It is not surprising, therefore, that this flexibility can be found among most, if not all, exceptional scientists. Oshin Vartanian compared and analysed the daily workflows of Nobel Prize winners and other eminent scientists and concluded that it is not a relentless focus, but flexible focus that distinguishes them. “Specifically, the problem-solving behavior of eminent scientists can alternate between extraordinary levels of focus on specific concepts and playful exploration of ideas. This suggests that successful problem solving may be a function of flexible strategy application in relation to task demands.” (Vartanian 2009, 57) - Qute [[How To Take Smart Notes]]
        - Work done in states of deep focus is valuable, but only when combined with wide exploration and drawing connections from distinct ideas that you get to the most valuable insights.
    - These studies help to solve a puzzle that has bothered psychologists who study creative people as well. “On one hand, those with wandering, defocused, childlike minds seem to be the most creative; on the other, it seems to be analysis and application that’s important. The answer to this conundrum is that creative people need both … The key to creativity is being able to switch between a wide-open, playful mind and a narrow analytical frame.” (Dean, 2013, 152)
        - Creativity comes from connecting different areas of the brain 
    - [[specialization]]
